The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Ranch Girls and the silver arrow,
by Margaret Vandercook

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Ranch Girls and the silver arrow

Author: Margaret Vandercook

Illustrator: Edwin J. Prittie

Release Date: December 28, 2022 [eBook #69649]

Language: English

Produced by: Juliet Sutherland, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE RANCH GIRLS AND THE
SILVER ARROW ***





                        THE RANCH GIRLS SERIES

                            The Ranch Girls
                                and the
                             Silver Arrow

                        BY MARGARET VANDERCOOK

                            ILLUSTRATED BY
                           EDWIN J. PRITTIE

                      THE JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY
                             PHILADELPHIA

                          Copyright, 1921, by
                      THE JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY

                           MADE IN U. S. A.




                               CONTENTS


                          I. THE SILVER ARROW

                         II. UNDER CHANGING SKIES

                        III. THE DAWN

                         IV. AT BREAKFAST

                          V. A LAWN PARTY

                         VI. THE LAW OF AVERAGES

                        VII. PREPARATION

                       VIII. THE TEST

                         IX. FACE TO FACE

                          X. AN AUGUST AFTERNOON

                         XI. THE REQUEST

                        XII. THE REFUSAL

                       XIII. ASSOCIATIONS

                        XIV. NEW FRIENDS

                         XV. THE PAST

                        XVI. FAVORING WINDS

                       XVII. OUT OF THE DARK

                      XVIII. VALOR

                        XIX. FAREWELL




                             ILLUSTRATIONS


                  THE ODDLY DISCOVERED TREASURE WAS AN ARROW

                  "YOUR HORSE NEARLY RAN OVER ME"

                  THE PONY REFUSED TO MAKE THE ATTEMPT

                  THE YOUNG INDIAN WAS SEARCHING AMONG THE ROCKS




                 The Ranch Girls and the Silver Arrow




                               CHAPTER I

                           THE SILVER ARROW


Four girls were leading their ponies along a narrow defile.

On either side of them arose tall cliffs. Overhead timeout the sky showed a
deep warm blue. A stream of water flowed along, ending in a small lake
at Some distance ahead.

"Absurd to have undertaken such a trip to-day of all days, Jeanette!
Why keep up the pretense that we are not lost? As we will find our way
home eventually, ordinarily I should not mind, but to be late this
afternoon may create a situation that will be difficult to explain!"

"Nonsense, Lina. What does it matter? I for one do not care time if we are
not at home when father and our new stepmother reach there. I hope to
be polite, but I won't pretend enthusiasm.

"What was the line of poetry we were trying to recall when we followed
this new road down into the canyon?" asked Jeanette, wishing to divert
her older sister's attention,

    "We were dreamers dreaming greatly in the man-stifled town;
    We yearned beyond the sky-line, where the strange roads go down."

the other girl repeated with a slight note of self-satisfaction. One so
often feels this in remembering what other people have forgotten.

The four girls were daughters of Jim Colter of the Rainbow Ranch. His
first wife had died, and he had married Jacqueline Ralston Kent, a
former Ranch Girl much younger than himself, and was returning to the
ranch with his bride after the honeymoon. The oldest of the girls was
about fifteen years of age, the next fourteen, then twelve and eight.

"We have pursued a strange road. We seem to have descended into the
heart of the world. Yet we were scarcely stifled at the ranch!" the
third girl exclaimed, with a half whimsical, half wistful smile.

"I feel as Lina does, that we should reach home as soon as possible.
We left a little after daylight and had we not taken this road down
into the canyon would have been there an hour ago. Still it has been a
wonderful experience! I did not know there was a canyon in this part of
the country that we had not already explored!"

Lina Colter turned.

"Are you tired, Eda? If you wish to ride I can lead both our ponies."

The youngest of the four new Ranch Girls shook her head.

Named in honor of Frieda Ralston, who had been the youngest of another
group of Ranch Girls some years before, Frieda Colter--more often
called Eda--looked and was as unlike in character to the other Frieda
as it was possible to imagine.

Slender and small, she had straight dark hair, deeply tanned skin, with
a bright crimson in her cheeks and lips. Her eyes instead of being
black, as one might have expected from her other coloring, were a light
blue such as one sees in old china.

With her lashes down concealing the blue of her eyes, there was
something about her that suggested an Indian. She possessed the grace
and lightness of carriage of one who has lived always out of doors,
and a peculiar litheness as if she were rarely tired.

Jeanette Colter laughed. The second of the girls, she was the moving
spirit of their adventures, as Jacqueline Ralston had been in the past.
Her hair was a light brown with obstinate waves. She wore it cut short
in order that it should be less troublesome. She had gray-blue eyes, a
short nose, a clear fresh skin in which the color came and went swiftly
in answer to her moods. Her mouth showed a firm line unusual in so
young a person.

"Via, you are more apt to be weary than Eda! You do look a little
used up, child! Suppose we sit down and rest a while when we come to
the edge of the enchanted lake we saw ahead of us a few moments ago.
Although it has disappeared, I am sure we shall discover it again as
soon as we pass on the other side of this cliff," Jeanette remarked.

She and Via were especially devoted to each other.

Via--or Olivia, to give her her full name--did appear more frail than
her sisters. She had fair hair and dark eyes and a gentle manner.

Lina--short for Jacqueline--the oldest of the four girls, was studious
and reserved, not giving her affection easily, but deeply devoted to a
few persons.

Jeanette had made no mistake.

The path along the edge of the cliff became steeper and more difficult
to follow.

Then turning the bend, the four girls uttered exclamations of delight.

Sheer embankments of stone hedged them in on three sides. Moving upward
toward the far horizon was a single, little-traveled road.

Here, at the bottom of the canyon, like a sapphire set amid diamonds, a
little lake appeared in the midst of hollowed-out stones.

Jeanette, who had been in the lead, dropped down first, making a cup of
her hand.

"I am sure this water must be fresh and pure. How can it be otherwise
in such a place? Suppose we drink first and then let the ponies drink.
Afterwards we must eat the few sandwiches we have left and be merry.
If we do not see father and our new and reverend stepmother"--Jeanette
made a little grimace--"before bedtime, why, the misfortune is four
times more her own than ours! It does seem absurd for father to have
married some one so much younger than himself! He was her guardian, as
we know, years before his marriage to our own mother. Personally, I
don't believe in second marriages."

Jeanette's attention was now demanded. She held the reins of the two
younger girls' ponies while they satisfied their thirst.

Five minutes later the four girls were seated in characteristic
attitudes about the edge of the small lake. The ponies, glad to enjoy a
brief rest, stood tethered to the forks of bushes that grew out of what
seemed solid rock.

Olivia was leaning her fair head against Jeanette's strong young
shoulder, a wistful droop to her figure.

Jeanette sat upright, her white teeth closing firmly on a sandwich. Her
gray-blue eyes were looking down into the heart of the water. A strange
mixture, Jeanette! She possessed an adventurous outdoor nature and yet
now and then was oddly given to dreaming.

More intimate with her father and more his companion in the management
of Rainbow Ranch than any one of her sisters, Jeanette resented his
marriage more than the others.

"I wish, Jeanette dear, that you would not feel so unhappy over the
future," Via murmured. The two girls had special names for each other
that only a few outside persons employed. "After all, _father_ is
the person to consider! If he thinks that it is best for us to spend
this summer together at the ranch making friends with our new mother,
it need not last forever! If you wish, you and Lina some day can go
away to school. Eda and I will be able to survive, I suppose, although
it will be hard."

Olivia leaned over and let her slim hand sink into the bright water.

Although Jeanette was his most devoted friend and companion, three of
the four new Ranch Girls believed that Via was their father's favorite
child. There was an appealing quality in her gentleness and lack of
self-reliance.

Eda, the youngest, was possessed of an odd temperament. She did not
seem to care for affection. Never, even when a baby, had she permitted
any one to treat her as one ordinarily treats a little girl. Not only
had she objected to caresses, she did not wish to be amused. Her own
projects and ideas were sufficient entertainment. Hours at a time she
would play alone, hiding if need be from the other girls.

They would find her swinging her thin legs from the high rafters of
one of the barns, or climbing one of the tall cottonwood trees in the
road that led to the old Rainbow Lodge. Here the first four Ranch Girls
lived before the discovery of their wealth in Rainbow Creek. After
building the new house, Frieda Ralston, now Mrs. Henry Tilford Russell,
had christened it Rainbow Castle.

"Really, Jeanette, there is no reason why you should be so prejudiced
against our new stepmother. Dear me, what shall we call her? She did
not wish to be called Lady Kent after the death of her first husband
when she returned to live at our ranch," Lina argued.

Jeanette shrugged her shoulders.

"Rainbow Ranch isn't ours, kindly remember. Of course, father now owns
a large share of the land, but the rest belongs to our new stepmother
and the former Rainbow Ranch Girls. She will never accept the fact that
we are the present-day Ranch Girls and I think will always insist upon
occupying every position of prominence. As for what name we shall call
her by, I intend to say Mrs. Colter. I must either say that, or Jack,
and Jack is hardly a respectful title for one's stepmother, whatever
one's inward feeling."

Jeanette Colter attempted to speak lightly, yet there was in her voice
and manner an intensity of feeling that suggested shoals ahead.

"You have no right to frighten or prejudice the younger girls, whatever
you may feel yourself," Lina whispered in an undertone. "I wish I
disagreed with you more completely, then I would have more influence.
In my heart of hearts I feel almost as uncomfortable as you do," Lina
added.

"What a queer mix-up of a family!" said Via. "Father is at least a
third older than his new wife, the new wife is a little more than twice
as old as we are! There is only one thing we seem to have in common and
that is affection for the old Rainbow Ranch! In any case I do hope we
may be back at home before the travelers arrive. They were not positive
at what hour they would reach home to-night."

As if the matter concerned her but little, Jeanette Colter yawned.

Then her expression softened and she rested her cheek on her younger
sister's head, which still pressed against her shoulder.

"Oh, Olivia, you will keep the peace, or do your best! You will help
now and then, Lina, when you are not too interested in your stupid old
books to know what is taking place in the world. Eda and I probably
will create the difficulties. If I am sent away from the beloved old
ranch sooner than the rest of you, sorry as I shall be to leave you,
don't shed tears for me. It may be I shall soon prefer to be away."

Suddenly Jeanette sat up abruptly. Via raised her head in quick
surprise.

"At least there is one thing for which I am truly thankful. We are to
be spared for this summer the presence of our new step-brother. He is
one of the most objectionable boys I have ever known, and named for
father, and father his guardian as well as other things. Oh, dear, it
is too mixed-up a family skein for me to unravel!" Jeanette protested.

"Heavenly as this small lake is, lying amid its guard of giant stones,
don't you think we should be wending our way upward and onward?" Lina
inquired. "Once out of this defile, we shall know the direction we
should take for home. Perhaps we shall reach there by dark, or if not
there is a moon and a straight road over our own prairies, so what does
it matter?"

Jeanette glanced upward, the other three girls following her example.

The first sunset rays had dropped down the western slope of the cliff,
lighting it with strange and beautiful colors, mauve and rose and gold.

No sounds could be heard save the four young voices and the
restlessness of the four ponies, who were beginning to demand to be
taken home.

Suddenly, as if from out of the sky itself, there appeared a small
object. Downward, straight as a plummet, it plunged into the surface of
the water not far from where the four girls were seated.

Instinctively four hands were thrust forward.

Jeanette's hand drew the object forth.

The tip had been broken by striking against the hard bed of rock, and
yet it was plain that the oddly discovered treasure was an arrow made
of some dull metal.

[Illustration: THE ODDLY DISCOVERED TREASURE WAS AN ARROW.]

Jeanette held it up for the others to observe. The arrow glistened with
an unexpected radiance.

Reaching out for it, Lina, who was slightly near-sighted, held it
closer to her eyes.

"The arrow is of silver, I believe! From whence could it have come? Who
could have shot a silver arrow down into this hidden ravine? Oh, I
presume it belongs to you, Jeanette, as you were first to find it."

Jeanette shook her head.

"No, the arrow is no more mine than yours or Via's or Eda's. I simply
chanced to be nearest the side of the water where it fell."

"Well, I have something to suggest," Via remarked dreamily. "Suppose we
take the arrow home and keep it always. When the day comes that one of
us does something braver or better than the other, she is to possess
the silver arrow until another earns it in the same fashion--or until
some one claims it."

"A beautiful suggestion, Via! But come, we must leave this enchanted
lake. At least we should manage to arrive at home by bedtime."

A few moments later the four Western ponies with their riders could be
seen moving upward along the narrow trail.




                              CHAPTER II

                         UNDER CHANGING SKIES


The moon was shining in a clear sky when Jim Colter, the former manager
and one of the owners of the Rainbow Ranch, and his new wife returned
home.

They had been married quietly about six weeks before in the presence of
the family. Immediately after, they had left the ranch to spend their
honeymoon camping in the Canadian Rockies.

To-night they were riding slowly along the familiar road which led from
the railroad station to the front gate. This opened into the avenue,
thickly bordered with cottonwood trees, forming the approach to the
house.

On horseback, the riders were close beside each other, although rarely
speaking.

Finally the woman gave a faint sigh,

"How many times we have taken this selfsame journey to the old place,
Jim! Now once again I come back home, after a fashion a new person
and to a new life. First, the headstrong, self-willed Jacqueline
Ralston whose childhood and girlhood were spent here! After my marriage
to Frank Kent, a bride returning to visit her former home! Then my
widowhood with my small son, Jimmie, at the Rainbow Lodge. Now, the
crowning honor of my varied career, I return as Mrs. James Colter!"

Jack, who never would be known by any other name to her family and
intimate friends, laughed in the half teasing, half serious fashion
with which her companion was familiar.

Characteristically she put up her hand to her head to remove her small
traveling hat, hanging it on the pommel of her saddle.

"This is much more comfortable and I feel more like myself! Surely we
shall see no one to-night except the four new Ranch Girls! I wonder how
much they are going to dislike me, Jim, in my new character? I don't
fancy I shall be a great success."

In the moonlight the woman who was speaking looked far younger than the
middle-aged man who was her husband.

As a matter of fact, Jim Colter had been a grown man when Jacqueline
Ralston was a young girl.

In those early days when out of nowhere he appeared to assist her
father in the management of the Rainbow Ranch, nothing could have been
farther from his imagination, or from her own, than a marriage between
them.

Jack's golden-brown hair held the same lovely shades and was arranged
in a close coil about her small head. Her skin was more tanned than
usual from the six weeks in the mountains, following endless trails by
day and sleeping at night under the stars.

Her figure was as slim as ever and she sat her horse with her
accustomed ease and grace.

"Oh, I presume the girls will have some welcome arranged for our
arrival! As our train was several hours late, I telegraphed ahead. But,
child, do spend less time in worrying over your success or failure as
a stepmother. We have given too much attention to the question for the
past six weeks. The new Ranch Girls are wise enough to know in what
luck they are playing! They may not be as grateful to you as I am; that
is asking more than one should expect. What troubles me is not your
rôle as a stepmother, but as the wife of a man as old as I am. Looking
back now, I often wonder how I had the courage for our marriage!"[1]

[Footnote 1: See "Ranch Girls and Their Hearts' Desire."]

"Courage! Jim, what a word to use! Yet of course I realize that it
must have required courage to marry me! Jean and Olive and Frieda,
your three other Ranch Girls of long ago, often have told you how much
courage it would require. But on this night of our home-coming I did
not expect to be reminded of it by you. By the way, will you please
be kind enough not to call me 'child' in public? You did the other
day. I can bear the title now and then in private, but in public it
reflects on the dignity I'm afraid I never have been able to acquire.
Now with four new daughters I really must learn to become a different
individual!"

Jack rode nearer. Her horse leaned its head as if to confide in the
other horse cantering quietly beside it.

"Jim, I was thinking of something just now, something real," she
whispered. "I don't know whether I ought to say it. Remember the
marriage ceremony says 'for better, for worse, for rich or for poor, in
sickness and in health.' You and I have been through these experiences
together as friends. Remember how poor we were in those old days before
gold was discovered in Rainbow Creek? There was my long illness and
the trouble we had in trying to keep the old ranch from being stolen
from us!"[2]

[Footnote 2: See "Ranch Girls at Rainbow Lodge."]

"Never mind all these reminiscences, Jack; it is the future I am
interested in at present, not the past," Mr. Colter remonstrated.

"One more promise you must make me. Promise never to interfere in my
effort. The girls must either like or dislike me. I must win them
myself, or never win at all."

Jack half arose in her saddle, pointing ahead. "See the lights of
Rainbow Castle there in the distance!" She was as excited as if the
house to which she was returning had not been her home in girlhood.

It was true that she was coming back in a new character, wife of her
former guardian and stepmother to his four young daughters.

Her companion obeyed her suggestion.

Across the fields they beheld lights glimmering from a number of
windows. They were still half a mile away.

Unconscious of what she was doing, the reins slackened in Jack's hands.
Aware of this and with the knowledge that his stable was not far off,
unexpectedly her horse broke into a swift canter.

As she felt the swing of his feet under her, the wind from the
prairies sweeping across her cheeks and the fragrance of the purple
clover in her nostrils, the new Mrs. Colter laughed aloud.

Instead of drawing her reins and pulling up, she touched her horse
lightly with her whip and sped more swiftly ahead.

At the same instant there was a rushing and a patter of many hoofs
across a nearby field.

Their manes flying, graceful and beautiful in the moonlight, their
slender noses sniffing with curiosity and pleasure, half a dozen mares
followed by their young colts raced close beside the rider.

Her companion followed, half amused and half protesting.

He had no fear. No one was more at home on horseback than the girl he
had taught to ride so many years before. She was now his wife.

At the door of their home, Rainbow Castle, Jim lifted Jack down from
her horse.

Ordinarily she would not wait for his or any one else's assistance.

To-night as her horse stopped she had a sudden feeling of oppression.
She did not desire to go indoors. Often she had felt this after a long
ride. All her life she had loved the outdoor world more than the four
sides of a house.

To-night she had another reason. She was dreading to meet the young
girls who were her stepdaughters.

She had known them before in the year she had spent with her son,
Jimmie, at the Rainbow Lodge. Yet there had been no intimacy between
them. She was not particularly sympathetic with young girls and had
been busy with her own affairs. They had been friendly, but she never
had tried to understand their different dispositions.

At the time her own sister, Frieda, who was now Mrs. Henry Tilford
Russell, had been living at the big house with her husband and little
girl. Jean, her cousin and a former Ranch Girl, had kept house at
Rainbow Castle for Jim Colter and his motherless daughters.

Frieda and Jean not only understood the new Ranch Girls better than she
did, but were more admired and loved by them.

Even then Jack realized that they did not enjoy her friendship with
their father, which had ended with their marriage.

If the sound of their arrival was heard inside the big house, no one
came to the front door to open it for the home-comers.

Jim Colter unlocked the door and he and Jack entered.

The drawing-room was lighted and the door partly open.

Stepping forward, Jack pushed it farther apart.

Inside the room four girls were seated.

One of them was curled up on a long sofa, a book in her hand. The
leaves had fallen together, as if she were asleep.

Another figure, the smallest of all, was almost lost in an immense
upholstered blue chair. Her black hair made a contrasting spot of
color against the blue; her eyes were closed and the little figure was
drooping with weariness. Her cheeks were a deep rose.

Seated beside each other on low stools close together were two other
girls, who slowly arose at Jack's entrance.

They were Jeanette and Olivia Colter.

Jeanette's face was pale and her lips closed firmly together. Her
gray-blue eyes looked darker, her uplifted nose more mutinous.

The fairer, gentler girl beside her appeared equally grave, if less
unfriendly.

Crossing the room, Jeanette held out her hand stiffly to the newcomer.

Her father had delayed his entrance, thinking it might be easier for
them all if his welcome came later.

"I am sorry we did not hear you arrive. You must have come on
horseback. We thought the car was to be sent for you. We have been
riding ourselves all day and got in very late. Lina and Eda, as you
see, are asleep."

At this moment the oldest of the four new Ranch Girls opened her eyes
and rose.

Plainly she was endeavoring to appear more enthusiastic than she felt.

She too shook hands. The new stepmother dared not ask that any one of
the three girls welcome her more warmly.

She was leaning over to kiss the youngest of the four girls, when Eda
slipped from her. With a swift movement of intense affection she flung
her arms about her father.

At this moment he had entered the room.

The next the new stepmother found herself standing alone while the four
new Ranch Girls were rejoicing over him.




                              CHAPTER III

                               THE DAWN


All night Jeanette had been unable to sleep more than half an hour at a
time. Never in her life before could she recall such an experience.

Tired after their long excursion and the finding of the silver arrow,
the excitement of meeting her father and the new stepmother, she had
expected to fall into a sound slumber as soon as her head touched the
pillow.

This had not happened and now it was dawn.

Getting out of bed, Jeanette walked over to a window.

Her room, which she occupied alone, was at the back of the big house.
The view showed the carefully tended kitchen garden, the stables at
some distance away, and beyond the long sweep of their own fields. One
could catch a dim outline of a distant rim of hills.

The window was open. Thrusting out her head, Jeanette drew in a deep
breath of the sweet morning air.

No one else on the place was yet astir.

Yawning, she glanced toward her bed and then outside again. Which
called to her most? She was sleepy and yet felt she would be unable to
sleep.

A ride before breakfast perhaps would put her in a better frame of mind
to meet the new day. She dressed quickly in an old riding suit of blue
corduroy.

Outside her window there was a long tangle of heavy vines supported by
a lattice and twisting about the posts of the porch.

Wishing no one in the house to know of her departure, Jeanette crawled
out of her window and clambered carefully down to the porch railing.
This was not her first descent. By her own efforts the vines had been
arranged to form a kind of natural stepladder.

Outdoors she hurried off to the stables. Here she saddled one of the
ranch ponies. Her own had been too wearied by the long journey the day
before.

She was about to ride away when she observed some one else slipping out
of the house alone. She looked not a great deal older at this distance